Parliamentary QA
DETERRENCE FOR USE OF KPODS OR VAPE JUICES MIXED WITH ETOMIDATE

8 January 2025

   

NOTICE PAPER NO. 3326

NOTICE OF QUESTION FOR ORAL ANSWER

FOR THE SITTING OF PARLIAMENT ON or after 8 January 2025

Name and Constituency of Member of Parliament

Mr Melvin Yong Yik Chye

MP for Radin Mas

Question No. 7060

To ask the Minister for Health whether the Health Sciences Authority has any plans to detect and deter the use of ‘KPods’ which are vape juice mixed with etomidate and which have been touted by online sellers to be undetectable by urine tests.

NOTICE PAPER NO. 3322

NOTICE OF QUESTION FOR WRITTEN ANSWER

FOR THE SITTING OF PARLIAMENT ON or after 8 January 2025

Name and Constituency of Member of Parliament

Ms Hany Soh

MP for Marsiling-Yew Tee GRC

Question No. 6429

To ask the Minister for Health (a) what is the number of cases of ‘Kpods’ or vape juice mixed with etomidate that are detected in 2024; (b) how is the Health Sciences Authority (HSA) conducting enforcement against such sale and consumption; and (c) whether HSA offers support to consumers who are trying to cease the habit.

Written Answer
The Ministry of Health (MOH), together with the Health Sciences Authority (HSA) and other partner enforcement agencies, have been stepping up our physical and online checks to enforce the ban on importation, supply, possession and use of e-vaporisers. As of 31 December 2024, HSA has issued fines to more than 14,000 individuals found to be in possession and use of e-vaporisers and removed about 6,800 offending listings of e-vaporisers. This was double that of 2023, when about 7,800 composition fines were issued and 3,000 listings were removed.

Based on samples of e-vaporiser pods sent for testing, five cases of e-vaporisers containing etomidate were detected and investigations are on-going. As etomidate is classified as a poison under the Poisons Act, a licence is required for the importation and sales of etomidate. HSA takes a serious view on the illegal sales and use of etomidate and will take stern actions against offenders. Contrary to the advertisements touted by online sellers, individuals consuming such e-vaporisers may also have etomidate detected in their urine. Those found to be supplying etomidate-containing pods are liable upon conviction to a maximum penalty of imprisonment for up to two years and/or fine up to $10,000 under the Poisons Act. The presence of etomidate laced e-vaporisers reinforces our concern that vaping is harmful and our commitment to enforcing the ban on importing, supplying, possessing or using all varieties of e-vaporisers.

I Quit, a programme by the Health Promotion Board, supports individuals seeking to stop the habit of vaping.

