Press Releases
AVENUES TO SURRENDER E-VAPORISERS AND SEEK SUPPORT TO QUIT VAPING

25 July 2025

 


The Minister for Health has earlier announced that in the coming weeks, etomidate will be classified as a Class C illegal drug under the Misuse of Drugs Act (MDA). In the meantime, those who are using e-vaporisers and especially consuming etomidate should give up their habit as soon as possible. 


2        To support them during this period, Health Sciences Authority (HSA) has embarked on an initiative to encourage e-vaporiser users to surrender their e-vaporisers and related components in order to start their quit journey before the law catches up with them.


3        Called “Bin the Vape”, the HSA has partnered with the People’s Association to place e-vaporiser disposal bins across the island at 23 Community Clubs and one Residents’ Network Centre for members of the public to voluntarily dispose of e-vaporisers safely from 25 July 2025. Bins will also be progressively placed at other locations such as the Institutes of Higher Learning. Members of the public can visit HSA's website (go.gov.sg/bin-vapes) to locate the nearest bin. See Annex A for the list of locations.


4        Members of the public who wish to seek support for quitting, particularly if they have been using etomidate e-vaporisers, may approach WE CARE Community Services, Singapore Anti-Narcotics Association, the Institute of Mental Health for assistance or the Quitline counsellors at 1800 438 2000. See Annex B for the list of contacts.


5        Persons who come forward to bin their e-vaporisers or voluntarily seek support for quitting will not face any penalties for doing so.


6        Once etomidate is listed as a Class C drug under the MDA in a few weeks’ time, those caught using etomidate-laced e-vaporisers will be subject to mandatory supervision and rehabilitation. Repeat offenders are liable to be prosecuted and subject to jail for at least a year. Those caught selling, distributing or importing etomidate-laced e-vaporisers will be subject to more severe penalties, including jail up to 20 years and caning. 




MINISTRY OF HEALTH

HEALTH SCIENCES AUTHORITY

PEOPLE’S ASSOCIATION

25 JULY 2025

Annex A
Add your alt text here

Table caption

Area
	

Location

Central
	

·       Bishan CC

·       Buona Vista CC

·       Ci Yuan CC

·       Fernvale CC

·       Jalan Besar CC

North East
	

·       One Punggol CC

·       Pasir Ris Elias CC

·       Sengkang CC

·       Tampines Central CC

·       The Serangoon CC

North West
	

·       Ace The Place CC

·       Canberra CC

·       Senja-Cashew CC

·       Naval Base Anchor RN

·       Nee Soon South CC

·       Sembawang CC

·       Woodlands CC

·       Woodlands Galaxy CC

·       Yew Tee CC

South East
	

·       Kampong Chai Chee CC / Heartbeat@Bedok

·       Mountbatten CC

South West
	

·       Boon Lay CC

·       Hong Kah North CC

·       Keat Hong CC
Add your alt text here

Annex B

 

Contact Points to Seek Support for Quitting


Table caption

Social Service Agency
	

Type of services provided
	

Contact details

WE CARE Community Services
	

·       Counselling services

·       Drop in centre

·       Recovery support groups

·       Group work and therapy programmes

·       Talks and workshops
	

Tel: 3165 8017 or 8391 3023 (WhatsApp)  


Email: help@wecare.org.sg

Website: https://www.wecare.org.sg/

Singapore Anti-Narcotics Association
	

·       Step-Up Centres

SANA Step-Up Centres are walk-in facilities that support the rehabilitation and reintegration of persons-in-recovery from drug addiction by strengthening their social support networks. The centres are open to recovering individuals, their families and anyone seeking help on drug addiction.


·       Case Management Services

Interim financial assistance, casework and counselling


·       Psychotherapy

SANA’s psychotherapy service uses evidence-based therapeutic techniques to address co-occurring mental health conditions, behavioural challenges and relationship issues that may contribute to or increase the risk of drug relapse.
	

Tel: 6732 1122


Email: sana@sana.org.sg

Website:  https://www.sana.org.sg/



Institute of Mental Health
	

National Addiction Management Services (NAMS)

·       Assessment and treatment of addictions

·       Individual, group and family therapy
	

For NAMS appointment enquiries: 6389 2200 / https://for.sg/nams-appointment-form

Website: https://www.nams.sg
