Parliamentary QA
Vaping in taxi and private hire car

6 August 2024

This article has been migrated from an earlier version of the site and may display formatting inconsistencies.

NOTICE PAPER NO. 2957

NOTICE OF QUESTION FOR WRITTEN ANSWER

FOR THE SITTING OF PARLIAMENT ON 6 AUGUST 2024


Name and Constituency of Member of Parliament

Mr Melvin Yong Yik Chye

MP for Radin Mas SMC


Question No. 5985


To ask the Minister for Health (a) what is the Ministry's plan to tackle vaping in private hire cars by passengers; and (b) how will the Government protect private hire car drivers against retaliation by passengers so that they will feel safe to report passengers for vaping.


NOTICE PAPER NO. 2983

NOTICE OF QUESTION FOR WRITTEN ANSWER

FOR THE SITTING OF PARLIAMENT ON 6 AUGUST 2024


Name and Constituency of Member of Parliament

Dr Wan Rizal 

MP for Jalan Besar GRC


Question No. 6010


To ask the Minister for Health (a) what measures are in place to protect private-hire car drivers from passengers who use vapes during their rides; (b) what recourse is available to the drivers when a passenger is caught vaping in the vehicle by law enforcement officers; and (c) whether private-hire car drivers are to report passengers who vape in their cars and, if so, how will such reports be dealt with.


Answer


1 Mr Speaker, my response will also cover the matters raised in the question by Mr Melvin Yong Yik Chye and Dr Wan Rizal for a written reply for today’s sitting. I would invite Members to seek clarifications, if need be. 


2 When taxi and private hire car drivers observe their passengers vaping, they are encouraged to inform their passengers that vaping is illegal in Singapore. While it is not mandatory for the drivers to report vaping by passengers, they may do so to the Health Sciences Authority (HSA) via its hotlines. The identities of persons who report these cases to HSA are kept confidential by HSA. Drivers will also not be penalised for passengers vaping in their vehicles.   


3 If passengers retaliate or are uncooperative, drivers can seek help from the relevant authorities, such as the Singapore Police Force, where appropriate. 
