Parliamentary QA
UPSTREAM PREVENTIVE STRATEGIES TO COUNTER MISPERCEPTIONS OF VAPING

8 November 2022

This article has been migrated from an earlier version of the site and may display formatting inconsistencies.

NOTICE PAPER NO. 1498

NOTICE OF QUESTION FOR ORAL ANSWER
FOR THE SITTING OF PARLIAMENT ON OR AFTER 8 NOVEMBER 2022


Name and Constituency of Member of Parliament

Ms Ng Ling Ling

MP for Ang Mo Kio GRC


Question No. 3756

 

To ask the Minister for Health whether the Ministry will plan and implement social intervention and upstream preventive strategies through the Health Promotion Board and social service agencies to counter misconceptions that vaping is perceived as a sign of maturity and healthier than smoking.

 

NOTICE PAPER NO. 1455

NOTICE OF QUESTION FOR ORAL ANSWER
FOR THE SITTING OF PARLIAMENT ON OR AFTER 28 NOVEMBER 2022


Name and Constituency of Member of Parliament

Mr Yip Hon Weng

MP for Yio Chu Kang


Question No. 3653

 

To ask the Minister for Health (a) how many companies have been prosecuted for the illegal sale of e-cigarettes on online platforms; and (b) whether dedicated reporting channels can be set up for the public to report illegal sales of e-cigarettes on online platforms.

 

NOTICE PAPER NO. 1450

NOTICE OF QUESTION FOR WRITTEN ANSWER
FOR THE SITTING OF PARLIAMENT ON 7 NOVEMBER 2022


Name and Constituency of Member of Parliament

Mr Shawn Huang Wei Zhong

MP for Jurong GRC


Question No. 2296

 

To ask the Minister for Health (a) what is the trend of vaping in 2022 compared to 2021 and 2020; (b) how many vaping incidences are related to minors for this period; and (c) whether the current efforts are sufficient to ensure the decline of vaping incidences.


Written Answer


1        Currently, there is no direct prevalence data on the use of vaporisers as these are illegal products and reliable self-reported data is difficult to obtain.  The number of offenders caught for purchase, use or possession of vaporizers in 2022 is 3691 (up to Sep), as compared to 4697 in 2021. About one fifth of these offenders were under-18.


2        HSA monitors and gathers intelligence on illicit sales of e-cigarettes via social media and messaging platforms, and regularly carries out operations targeting sales of e-cigarettes on online platforms. HSA also collaborates with platforms such as Instagram, Facebook and Carousell to remove postings on the illegal sales of such products. In 2020 and 2021, 3573 and 6940 postings have been removed respectively. And in 2022 (up to Sep), 3923 postings have been removed. In year 2021 and 2022 (up to September), 32 and 25 online e-vaporiser peddlers have been prosecuted respectively. Concurrently the illegal importation of e-cigarettes is monitored at Singapore’s borders and intercepted as necessary to prevent entry of these e-cigarettes into the local market.


3        There is already a dedicated reporting channel for members of the public who have information on the illegal import, distribution, sale or offer for sale of prohibited tobacco products. They can submit an online form at go.gov.sg/reporttobaccooffences. Alternatively, they can contact HSA’s Tobacco Regulation Branch at Tel: 6684 2036 or 6684 2037 during office hours.


4        The enforcement activities are also complemented by public education efforts to deter the public, from vaping. The Health Sciences Authority engages the media to remind the public that the sale, use, possession for sale, importation or distribution of electronic vaporisers are strictly prohibited in Singapore and strongly advises the public against engaging in such activities.  A digital campaign on staying vape-free will be rolled out in early 2023 to raise awareness on the negative health effects of vaping and address misconceptions.


5        We share the concern about vaping amongst minors. MOH works closely with the Ministry of Education (MOE) to raise awareness among children and youths about the harms of vaping and encourage them to lead a nicotine-free lifestyle. Schools take a serious view of vaping and school-based disciplinary action is also taken for students caught using or possessing e-cigarettes and other types of vaporisers, including suspension, or caning for boys.  We will work with education institutions and schools to step up efforts to control access of vaporizers and its accessories to minors and the young.

