Parliamentary QA
Education on Vaping

11 May 2021

This article has been migrated from an earlier version of the site and may display formatting inconsistencies.

Name and Constituency of Member of Parliament
Mr Christopher de Souza 
MP for Holland-Bukit Timah GRC

Question No. 581 

To ask the Minister for Health what measures are put in place to counter the perception that vaping does not have the same serious health effects that smoking does.

Written Answer

1 The World Health Organisation has declared that Electronic Nicotine Delivery Systems (ENDS), commonly called e-cigarettes or vaporisers, are undoubtedly harmful to health and that they are not safer alternatives to regular cigarettes.  In addition, there is evidence that ENDS can be a gateway for non-smokers to start using traditional cigarettes. 

2 To raise awareness of the negative health effects of vaping, the Health Promotion Board (HPB) developed a public education campaign in 2019 to create awareness and understanding on the health harms of ENDS.  Targeted at youths aged 18 to 25 years old and parents with teenage children, the campaign highlighted the harmful contents within e-cigarettes.  HPB also works closely with the Ministry of Education and Institutes of Higher Learning to raise awareness among youths about the benefits of leading a tobacco-free lifestyle and encourage them to stay vape-free.  This involves organising online learning activities on the harms of vaping, through gamification methods (e.g. virtual escape rooms) to educate the youths.  HPB also provides resources for self-directed learning, and trains educators so that they are equipped to discuss the harms of vaping with their students.

3 For the general public, information on the negative effects of vaping is also available on HealthHub (www.HealthHub.sg/vaping). The Health Sciences Authority also engages the media to remind the public that the sale, use, possession for sale, importation or distribution of electronic vaporisers are strictly prohibited in Singapore and strongly advises the public from engaging in such activities.
