
Opening Remarks by Minister Desmond Lee at the Press Conference on Whole of Government Efforts to Tackle Vaping

Last Updated: 28 Aug 2025

News Speeches

1. You have heard Minister Ong say earlier that the majority of vaping and etomidate users are young people. That is why the Ministry of Education has leaned in for this whole-of-Government, and whole of society effort. You would also have seen on TikTok and social media reels the unsteady gait of young people, falling at MRT stations and in other public areas, arousing public concern and interest on this issue. In early August, I had one such encounter. It was a Saturday morning, in broad daylight. There was this boy or teenager, he was walking in my direction, and he had an unsteady and exaggerated gait. His movements were exaggerated, he looked listless and almost drugged. After a few steps, he collapsed on the ground and we attended to him and emergency services were called in. We saw something in his hand that looked like a vape. The suspicion was possibly vaping, which could include etomidate. Hence, vaping is clearly harmful, and a gateway to substance abuse like etomidate, and they have a serious impact on our youth.

2. The Ministry of Education (MOE) takes a firm stand against vaping by students in our schools as well as our Institutes of Higher Learning (or IHLs). We will support the whole-of-Government efforts against vaping in 2 main ways:

    First, by enhancing education in our schools as well as outreach to parents, and
    Second, by strengthening our enforcement in our schools and IHLs.

3.On education and outreach:

    Our students learn through curriculum and assembly talks that vapes and Kpods are harmful and illegal.
    They are reminded to be vigilant against vape peddling activities in their neighbourhoods.
    In the IHLs, preventive education on vaping and school regulations are covered in common or compulsory modules, as well as mandatory orientation modules and outreach talks.
    IHLs also work with parents and peer leaders, by sharing anti-vaping resources and information on behaviours to watch for to provide more support to students and encourage peer-led responsible behaviour.
    Going forward, we will amplify these education and outreach efforts. For instance, our schools and IHLs will share with students about the stepped-up enforcement that we are taking across the board. Our schools will also update parents on the measures that MOE is taking, and work with parents to support children through this journey while maintaining open communication and trust. Now, peer support is also vital among our students. While our students hear from us and their parents, alongside the enforcement action we are taking, we know that young people also listen to their peers. Hence, positive peer support is important as well. We encourage students to look out for peers struggling with vaping and urge them to seek help from trusted adults like our teachers for timely intervention and assistance. It is not about getting anyone in trouble – but making sure their friends get the much-needed help they need.

4. On the enforcement front, our schools and IHLs will implement stricter disciplinary measures against vaping from 1 September this year, in line with overall national efforts.

5. MOE will stipulate baseline school-based and institution-based disciplinary measures. These will be on top of the penalties imposed by the Health Sciences Authority (HSA).

    Schools will mete out disciplinary action, adjust the conduct grade of the student offender and take educative and rehabilitative measures.
    IHLs have disciplinary measures, which include among others, withdrawal of privileges and scholarships, as well as suspension or dismissal (for repeat offenders consuming etomidate).

6. To strengthen enforcement capabilities, MOE is working with HSA to empower and train designated staff members in schools and IHLs under the Tobacco (Control of Advertisements and Sale) Act (or TCASA in short), so that they can help carry out appropriate enforcement measures effectively and in a timely manner.

7. Our schools and IHLs alone cannot win this war against vaping. We will do what we can but ultimately, we need a whole of society effort. Parents play a very important role in preventing their children from vaping and consuming drugs. They can have very open conversations with their children and look out for troubling behaviours, and get help for their children. MOE will continue raising awareness and support parents through engagements. The community can also play a part, by being vigilant about peddlers in the neighbourhood who may be targeting our children and students and report them to the authorities.

