
Enhancing Vape Detection in Schools and Counselling for Students Caught Vaping

Last Updated: 23 Sep 2025

News Parliamentary Replies
Name and Constituency of Member of Parliament

Miss Rachel Ong, Tanjong Pagar GRC
Question

To ask the Minister for Education (a) whether the Ministry has plans to require all schools including Institutes of Higher Learning (IHLs) to install vape detectors on campus; and (b) whether students caught vaping in IHLs have access to counselling support.
Name and Constituency of Member of Parliament

Mr Sharael Taha, Pasir Ris-Changi GRC
Question

To ask the Minister for Education (a) how can detection of vape devices in schools be improved more effectively; (b) how will nicotine test kits be implemented in schools; (c) how can a "peer vigilance culture" be designed as being supportive rather than seen negatively by students; and (d) how can students who have been identified as vape users be better supported.
Combined Response

1. My response will address questions 108 and 109 raised by Ms Rachel Ong and Mr Sharael Taha on the management of vaping in schools and Institutes of Higher Learning (IHLs). I will also respond to questions from Ms Lee Hui Ying and Ms Valerie Lee who have filed oral Parliamentary Questions for subsequent sittings.

2. Our schools and IHLs use a variety of strategies to detect vaping on campus, rather than relying solely on technological solutions like vape detectors. They have implemented detection protocols, including guidelines to recognise potential signs of etomidate abuse, and coordination with Health Sciences Authority (HSA) for swift testing of vapes suspected of containing etomidate. In addition, when schools suspect students of vaping, they will interview the students and may use nicotine test kits after notifying parents. As part of educative efforts, schools and IHLs also focus on building positive peer support networks through student-led initiatives. These foster healthy lifestyles and encourage peers to seek help from trusted adults and healthcare professionals when needed.

3. From 1 September 2025, Ministry of Education (MOE) has implemented baseline disciplinary measures in schools including detention, suspension, and caning for boys, alongside conduct grade adjustments. IHLs have also implemented stricter disciplinary measures such as eviction from hostels, withdrawal of privileges such as leadership opportunities and overseas exchanges, community service orders and fines. Recalcitrant offenders will be suspended or expelled. Schools and IHLs take disciplinary action proportionate to the severity of the offence. Beyond disciplinary measures, schools and IHLs focus on guiding students to understand why their behaviour is wrong and help them take ownership of the problem. Rehabilitation is not a linear process and we seek to support students in their journey to quit vaping.

4. Students who voluntarily seek help to quit vaping will not face disciplinary measures by schools or IHLs. To help students quit vaping, schools and IHLs offer counselling through in-house counsellors and referrals to external services including Health Promotion Board's (HPB) QuitLine, National Addictions Management Services, WE CARE Community Services, and Singapore Anti-Narcotics Association. For students arrested for vaping offences, schools and IHLs work with their families as well as with community partners and other government agencies to support their rehabilitation and prevent recidivism.

5. MOE and HPB work together to support schools and IHLs with additional resources to support staff in understanding vaping and what they can do to prevent students from vaping. For example, HPB has developed an online training module for staff to learn about smoking and vaping cessation.

6. Besides detecting and managing vaping offences, MOE's holistic approach includes prevention, detection, and support across multiple touchpoints. Anti-vaping education is embedded in school curricula including Science, Physical Education, and Character and Citizenship Education, with regular assembly talks and targeted educational packages. Schools engage parents through joint HPB-HSA advisories via Parents Gateway every semester, and IHLs have mandatory orientation modules and targeted outreach programmes, such as to residents in university hostels.

7. Our framework balances firm consequences on the one hand, with sustained support, family engagement, and coordinated follow-up on the other hand, to achieve both school safety and student recovery goals. We want to provide students who make mistakes a clear pathway to rehabilitation and restoration.

