News
CNB cracks down on Etomidate syndicate in major anti-drug operation

11 September 2025

 

On 10 September 2025, officers from the Central Narcotics Bureau (CNB) launched an anti-drug operation and arrested eight Singaporeans, seven men and one woman, for suspected drug offences. Numerous vape-related products including more than 400 e-vaporiser pods believed to contain etomidate, and cash including SGD20,818, RMB498 and MYR5,800 were seized.

2. In the early evening of 10 September, two men, aged 26 and 28, were arrested at the void deck of a residential unit in the vicinity of Telok Blangah Rise for suspected drug offences. Both men put up a struggle to resist arrest and had to be subdued by officers. 68 e-vaporiser pods believed to contain etomidate were recovered from the 26-year-old man, while the 28-year-old man was found with five e-vaporiser pods believed to contain etomidate. Preliminary investigations revealed that the men were suspected to be transacting prior to their arrests.

3. The men were then escorted to a unit in the same block, where officers arrested another 26-year-old man therein. Shortly after, a 23-year-old-man was arrested outside the unit for suspected drug offences. During the search of the unit, numerous vape-related products including 327 e-vaporiser pods believed to contain etomidate were recovered.

4. In the same evening, four other Singaporeans were arrested separately by CNB officers for suspected drug offences.

    Two men, aged 29 and 32, were arrested in the vicinity of Hougang Avenue 9 for suspected drug offences. A search of their unit recovered several vape-related products, and cash amounting to SGD20,818, RMB498 and MYR5,800. 

    A 23-year-old man was arrested in his residential unit in the vicinity of Boon Lay Drive where vape-related products including five e-vaporiser pods believed to contain etomidate were found. An 18-year-old woman was later arrested outside the unit and was found with vape-related products including one e-vaporiser pod believed to contain etomidate. Preliminary investigation revealed that the woman had planned to collect etomidate e-vaporisers from the 23-year-old man. 

Stacked packages wrapped in clear plastic, with large bags in the background.
Packaged vape pens and cartridges, some branded, on a tan surface.

Photo (CNB): Vape-related products including e-vaporiser pods believed to contain etomidate were seized in a CNB operation on 10 September 2025.

5. Deputy Assistant Commissioner Ng Khai Song, Director of Intelligence Division, said:

“This is CNB’s first major operation against a syndicate trafficking in etomidate e-vaporisers, after etomidate was classified as a Class C controlled drug under the Misuse of Drugs Act on 1 September 2025. It demonstrates CNB’s commitment in stamping out controlled drugs, including harmful substances such as etomidate. We will continue to monitor and work closely with the relevant agencies to support the Government’s response against etomidate and sending a clear message that such illegal activities will not be tolerated.”

6. Under the MDA, those who import, sell or distribute etomidate-laced e-vaporisers will face prosecution.

7. Investigations into the drug activities of the arrested suspects are ongoing.


CENTRAL NARCOTICS BUREAU
11 September 2025

