Etomidate

Relevant information on Etomidate
Last updated 20 November 2025

On this page
Description
Effects and dangers
Penalties
Vape pods fill with etomidate
Description

From 1 September 2025, etomidate and its analogues will be classified as Class C controlled drugs under the Misuse of Drugs Act 1973 (MDA) for a period of six months, pending the Ministry of Health’s introduction of a more fit-for-purpose legislation. With this change, those who import, sell or distribute etomidate e-vaporisers will face prosecution under the MDA, and much higher penalties than today. Individuals found using etomidate e-vaporisers or who test positive for etomidate will no longer be just subject to a fine. They can be subject to rehabilitation, treatment, mandatory supervision and detention.
Effects and dangers

The adverse effects of etomidate when used in e-vaporisers include causing involuntary movements or spasm of muscles, confusion, seizures and psychosis. It can lead to physical dependence.
Penalties

From 1 September 2025, offenders will face more severe penalties under the MDA. Individuals who are repeat abusers [1] of etomidate can be subject to mandatory supervision, as well as rehabilitation and treatment in the Drug Rehabilitation Centre. Those who import, sell or distribute etomidate-laced e-vaporisers will face prosecution. The related penalties are as follows:-

Possession of etomidate and its analogues:

    Up to a maximum of 10 years of imprisonment or a fine of $20,000 or both

Consumption of etomidate and its analogues [2]:

    At least 1 year of imprisonment, up to a maximum of 10 years of imprisonment with a maximum fine of $20,000 

Illegal trafficking of etomidate and its analogues:

    At least 2 years of imprisonment and 2 strokes of the cane, up to a maximum of 10 years of imprisonment and 5 strokes of the cane

Illegal import or export of etomidate and its analogues:

    At least 3 years of imprisonment and 5 strokes of the cane, up to a maximum of 20 years of imprisonment and 15 strokes of the cane

For more information, please refer to the news releases on Whole of Government Efforts to Tackle Vaping and Amendments to the First Schedule of the Misuse of Drugs Act.

[1] First time etomidate e-vaporiser abusers will be given mandatory rehabilitation under the Tobacco (Control of Advertisements and Sale) Act.

[2] Abusers who deny consumption or have concurrent offences may face prosecution in lieu of rehabilitation.
