News
Large Heroin and Cannabis seizure from separate operations seizure could feed 2,630 abusers for a week

6 March 2025

       On 4 March 2025, the Central Narcotics Bureau (CNB) conducted two separate operations which saw a large amount of heroin and cannabis seized and the arrest of four suspected drug traffickers, all Singaporeans. The drugs seized had an estimated worth of more than SGD619,000 and could potentially feed the addiction of about 2,630 abusers for a week.

Raid at hotel at Havelock

2.     In the early evening hours of 4 March, CNB officers raided a room at a hotel in the vicinity of Havelock Road. The two occupants of the room, a 21-year-old woman and a 50-year-old man, were arrested and about 340g of heroin, 103g of ‘Ecstasy’, 27g of ‘Ice’, five Erimin-5 tablets and cash of SGD9,180 and MYR711 were recovered from within the room.

3.     Officers then escorted the two suspects to their rented vehicle parked at the hotel’s carpark and a search of the vehicle led to the recovery of about 2,758g of heroin and 515g of ‘Ice’.
Brown paper surface with plastic bags of pills, brown cubes, white crystals, and Singapore dollar bills.

Photo-1 (CNB): Drugs and cash seized in CNB raid at a hotel in vicinity of Havelock Road on 4 March 2025.

Large cannabis haul at Kaki Bukit

4.     In the late hours of 4 March, CNB officers arrested a 27-year-old woman and a 33-year-old man at the carpark of a commercial property in the vicinity of Kaki Bukit Road 3. The man was escorted to his hideout, a unit in the same building, and a search of the unit led to the recovery of about 4.99kg of cannabis, 279g of ketamine, 222g of ‘Ice’, 115g of ‘Ecstasy’, 250 LSD (lysergic acid diethylamide) stamps and numerous vape devices, cartridges and edibles suspected to contain THC (tetrahydrocannabinol).

5.     Concurrently, CNB officers also searched the car driven by the female suspect earlier, which led to the recovery of about 11g of ‘Ice’.
Table with bags of suspected drugs, edibles, and packaging, some labeled 'WONKA' and 'DAB'.

Photo-2 (CNB): Drugs seized in CNB operation in vicinity of Kaki Bukit Road 3 on 4 March 2025.
Packets of edibles: "Trippy Flip", "Fryd Chocolate", "Liitt Exotics", "Watermelom", "Dab", "Wonka Bar", and "Pukes" brand items.

Photo-3 (CNB): Edibles suspected to contain THC, seized in CNB operation in vicinity of Kaki Bukit Road 3 on 4 March 2025.
Various cannabis vape cartridges and edibles in branded packaging, sealed in plastic evidence bags.

Photo-4 (CNB): Vape devices and cartridges suspected to contain THC, sezied in CNB operation in vicinity of Kaki Bukit Road 3 on 4 March 2025.

6.     Deputy Assistant Commissioner Aaron Tang, Director Intelligence Division, said:

“CNB has been relentless in taking down drug traffickers and preventing them from inflicting harm and misery on our community. To those that choose to ignore our warnings – let these two operations be a stern reminder that if you continue to traffic in drugs, we will come for you. We will remain steadfast in our mission to protect the thousands of lives which would have been destroyed if the drugs were allowed to flow into the streets.”

7.     CNB would like to advise members of the public to be alert and cautious to drug traffickers’ attempts to peddle edibles containing harmful controlled drugs but which are packaged in innocuous packaging and sold as candies and edibles and irresponsibly marketed as harmless consumables. Members of the public can contact CNB for advice and assistance if they come across such suspected food products. Those who have drug-related information can make a report to CNB by calling 1800-325-6666 or at https://www.eservices.cnb.gov.sg/feedback

8.     Under Section 5 of the Misuse of Drugs Act 1973, it is an offence for a person, on his or her own behalf, or on behalf of any other person, whether or not that other person is in Singapore, to traffic in a controlled drug, offer to traffic in a controlled drug; or to do or offer to do any act preparatory to or for the purpose of trafficking in a controlled drug. If a person is found guilty of trafficking more than 15g of diamorphine or “pure heroin”, or more than 250g of methamphetamine, or more than 500g of cannabis, he or she may face the mandatory death penalty.

9.     Investigations into the drug activities of the arrested suspects are ongoing.

CENTRAL NARCOTICS BUREAU
6 MARCH 2025

