News
36 suspected drug offenders arrested in operation targeting drug activities carried out using chat applications

6 April 2024

On 2 April 2024, the Central Narcotics Bureau (CNB) carried out an operation targeting drug activities carried out using chat applications such as Telegram. The operation saw the arrest of 36 suspected drug offenders and the seizure of about 333g of cannabis, 13g of ‘Ice’, 5g of ketamine, a gramme of heroin, 42 Erimin-5 tablets, two ‘Ecstasy’ tablets and 65 vaping devices suspected to contain tetrahydrocannabinol (THC). The drugs seized are estimated to be worth about $19,000.

More than 120g of cannabis seized from 32-year-old woman

2. In one of the cases in this operation, a 32-year-old Singaporean female suspected drug trafficker was arrested within her residential unit located in the vicinity of Compassvale Drive. A search of the woman’s bedroom recovered about 123g of cannabis and various drug paraphernalia.

26-year-old man arrested for suspected drug trafficking

3. In another of the cases in this operation, a 26-year-old Singaporean male suspected drug trafficker was arrested within his residential unit located in the vicinity of Bedok North Street 3. About 107g of cannabis and various drug paraphernalia were recovered from within the unit.
Smartphone showing text message exchange and a video thumbnail of containers by a grate.

Photo 1 (CNB): Phone conversation between a drug client and his supplier through Telegram – uncovered in CNB operation conducted on 2 April 2024 which targeted drug activities carried out using chat applications.

4. DAC Aaron Tang, Director of Intelligence, said of the operations:

“Those who think they can carry out their drug activities with impunity by using chat applications such as Telegram will do well to think again. CNB will not be deterred from carrying out enforcement action against such drug offenders simply because of the anonymity offered by such chat applications. In fact, we will redouble our efforts to track them down and bring them in, whatever the applications they are using.”

5. Under Section 5 of the Misuse of Drugs Act 1973, it is an offence for a person, on his or her own behalf, or on behalf of any other person, whether or not that other person is in Singapore, to traffic in a controlled drug, offer to traffic in a controlled drug; or to do or offer to do any act preparatory to or for the purpose of trafficking in a controlled drug.

6. Investigations into the drug activities of all arrested suspects are ongoing.

CENTRAL NARCOTICS BUREAU
6 APRIL 2024
