MOH and HSA Continue to Intensify Enforcement on E-vaporiser Offences

The Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Health Sciences Authority (HSA) continued to step up enforcement actions against e-vaporiser offences in Singapore. From 1 April to 30 June 2025, enforcement efforts saw a substantial rise in numbers caught and prosecuted on all fronts.

2     In this period, due to the step-up in enforcement, more than 3,700 persons were caught and fined for the possession or use of e-vaporisers, an increase of almost 20% compared to the previous quarter, where more than 3,100 persons were caught.
Enforcement Targeting Online Content and Vaping in Public

3     From 1 April to 30 June 2025, HSA identified and issued fines to eight persons who posted photos or videos of themselves with e-vaporisers in their social media posts. These offenders have since removed the content (refer to Annex A for details). 

4     In one of the cases, HSA raided the homes of two 18-year-old boys on 4 June after acting on a tip-off of a video posted on social media where they were seen vaping in a bicycle shop located at Kallang. HSA visited the bicycle shop on the same day and caught another two men, aged 17 and 29 years, vaping. All four were fined on the spot.

5     HSA also worked with e-commerce and social media platforms to remove more than 2,000 online listings of e-vaporisers and related components from 1 April to 30 June 2025, a fivefold increase from the 408 listings removed in the previous quarter.
Enforcement at Checkpoints

6     Between April and June 2025, ICA’s intensified targeting and profiling efforts at the air, land, and sea checkpoints, alongside joint operations with HSA, led to the detection of 19 large-scale smuggling cases and the seizure of around 90,000 e-vaporisers and related products.

7     The authorities maintain a strict stance against travellers attempting to bring prohibited tobacco products into Singapore, with penalties including fines for offenders and possible prosecution for transport companies and drivers involved in importation. Foreigners convicted of offences in Singapore will be deported after serving their sentences and barred from re-entering Singapore.
Prosecution of Offenders

8     From 1 April to 30 June 2025, HSA prosecuted 12 persons, comprising eight males and four females aged 17 to 46 for selling e-vaporisers, with sentences ranging from probation to fines and imprisonment (refer to Annex B for details). In a recent case, on 11 July 2025, HSA acted swiftly on public feedback and caught a 21-year-old man who was allegedly distributing e-vaporisers and components in Bishan and Ubi. HSA officers conducted raids at these locations and seized almost three tonnes of e-vaporisers. He was charged in court on 14 July 2025 and the case was adjourned to 11 September 2025.

9     Additionally, HSA prosecuted 31 offenders comprising both males and females aged 19 to 64 years who failed to pay their composition fines, an increase from the 21 offenders prosecuted in the previous quarter. Offenders who failed to make timely payment of fines for vaping offences faced harsher consequences. They were penalised with higher fines and/or jail sentences (refer to Annex C for details).
Enforcement Targeting E-vaporisers with Etomidate

10     This year, as of 12 August 2025, 29 cases related to etomidate e-vaporiser have been detected. Nine cases are related to import and/or sale, while the rest related to illegal use.

11     Five persons have been charged or are facing charges in court for import and/or sale of e-vaporisers containing etomidate. Of these, one case involved a 41-year-old man who was charged on 17 July 2025 under the Poisons Act for manufacturing e-vaporiser pods containing etomidate in his home with the intent to sell them. The other four cases involved men aged 19 to 55 years. The other cases are under investigation, with some undergoing prosecution.

12     HSA will continue to work closely with agencies, such as SPF, Central Narcotics Bureau, ICA, the Ministry of Defence (MINDEF), National Parks Board and National Environment Agency to take stern enforcement actions against those who import, sell, distribute, possess, use or purchase e-vaporisers, particularly those laced with etomidate, under the appropriate legislations.
Penalties for E-vaporiser-related Offences in Singapore

13     Under the Tobacco (Control of Advertisements and Sale) Act, the possession, use or purchase of e-vaporisers carries a maximum fine of $2,000. It is also an offence to import, distribute, sell or offer for sale e-vaporisers and their components. Any person convicted of an offence is liable to a fine of up to $10,000, or imprisonment of up to six months or both for the first offence, and a fine of up to $20,000, or imprisonment of up to 12 months or both for the second or subsequent offence. All prohibited tobacco items will be seized and confiscated. HSA would like to remind those caught vaping to promptly pay their fines (Notice of Composition). Those who fail to do so before the due date of the Notices will face harsher consequences if prosecuted in Court.

14    Currently, persons found possessing pods containing etomidate are also liable upon conviction to a maximum penalty of imprisonment for up to 2 years and/or fine up to $10,000 under the Poisons Act. The Ministry of Health is working with the Ministry of Home Affairs to list etomidate as a Class C controlled drug under the Misuse of Drugs Act from 1 September 2025. This will enable tougher actions against suppliers and users of etomidate e-vaporisers, while MOH considers the necessary legislation amendments to deal with etomidate and other similar substances. Users can be subject to supervision and mandatory participation in a rehabilitation programme, or admitted to drug rehabilitation centres. Offenders can also be prosecuted and may face imprisonment or caning. HSA strongly warns those who are using e-vaporisers to stop use immediately. 

15     Even as the government has intensified surveillance and enforcement measures against e-vaporisers, members of the public continue to play a crucial role in our fight against illegal e-vaporiser activities. Those who have information on the illegal advertisement, import, distribution, sale or possession of e-vaporisers can contact HSA to support our enforcement efforts through two convenient channels:

-       Submit information through our online reporting form: www.go.gov.sg/reportvape or scan the QR code:

-       Call the Tobacco Regulation Branch at Tel: 6684 2036 or 6684 2037, operational daily, including weekends and public holidays, from 9am to 9pm

16     HSA has partnered with the People’s Association to place e-vaporiser disposal bins across the island at 26 Community Clubs and one Resident’s Network Centre for members of the public to voluntarily dispose of e-vaporisers safely, since 25 July.  The public can visit go.gov.sg/bin-vapes to locate the nearest bin. Bins have also been progressively placed at other locations such as the Institutes of Higher Learning. Persons who come forward to bin their e-vaporiser or voluntarily seek support for quitting will not face any penalties for doing so.

17     Information pertaining to prohibited tobacco products in Singapore is available on the HSA website. Persons who need help to quit vaping can join the I Quit programme. Admissions of consumption of such products shared during HPB’s cessation programmes will be kept confidential and will not be reported to other authorities.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
HEALTH SCIENCES AUTHORITY
26 AUGUST 2025
