
Oral Replies to Parliamentary Questions
Measures Against Trafficking of and Youth Abuse of Vapes and Kpods

Published: 22 September 2025
Questions:

Mr Yip Hon Weng: To ask the Coordinating Minister for National Security and Minister for Home Affairs (a) whether the Ministry has considered extending the extra-territorial provisions under the Misuse of Drugs Act to etomidate-laced vapes similar to prosecuting citizens for overseas cannabis use; and (b) what are the key policy considerations in deciding whether or not to assert jurisdiction beyond Singapore's borders.
 
Mr Christopher de Souza: To ask the Coordinating Minister for National Security and Minister for Home Affairs whether border control measures and customs inspections will be strengthened to address smuggling of illegal vaping products through Singapore's borders.

Mr Christopher de Souza: To ask the Coordinating Minister for National Security and Minister for Home Affairs (a) what measures are taken to address the trend of youths using vapes containing controlled substances; (b) whether enforcement agencies plan to review current enforcement strategies to more effectively deter illegal importation and distribution of vaping devices; and (c) how will the Ministry work with the Ministry of Health to ensure a twinned approach to tackling this issue.

Ms Mariam Jaafar: To ask the Coordinating Minister for National Security and Minister for Home Affairs whether Singapore's current border enforcement approaches are adequate to intercept illegal imports of e-vaporisers and related products, including through postal channels.

Mr Melvin Yong Yik Chye: To ask the Coordinating Minister for National Security and Minister for Home Affairs (a) how many cases of attempted e-vaporiser smuggling into Singapore have been intercepted at our checkpoints over the past one year; and (b) what measures will the Ministry take to strengthen interdiction and disrupt the upstream networks that supply e-vaporisers and related products to Singapore.


Answer:
Associate Professor Muhammad Faishal Ibrahim, Acting Minister-in-charge of Muslim Affairs and Senior Minister of State, Ministry of Home Affairs:

1. Sir, we have stepped up enforcement at the borders, to deter trafficking of vapes. Between 15 September 2024 and 14 September 2025, the Immigration and Checkpoints Authority intercepted 76 attempts of large-scale smuggling of vapes and related products at the checkpoints, and 57 attempts through the postal channels. 

2. The Singapore Police Force and Central Narcotics Bureau (CNB) are conducting inland operations against vape trafficking syndicates. On 10 September, CNB dismantled a syndicate dealing in etomidate-laced vapes, and arrested eight members of the syndicate. 

3. Extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Misuse of Drugs Act, or MDA, was introduced in 1998 to prevent local addicts from being able to travel overseas to abuse drugs. Under section 8A of the MDA, Singapore Citizens and Permanent Residents who are found to have abused controlled drugs outside Singapore will be dealt with as if that offence had been committed in Singapore. With the temporary listing of etomidate and its analogues as Class C controlled drugs, the same provision will apply to those who abuse etomidate overseas.

4. As for the question on youths abusing vapes containing controlled substances, MOE schools and Institutes of Higher Learning (IHLs) have been engaging students on the health risks and illegality of vapes through the school curriculum and compulsory IHL orientation e-modules. CNB has also included etomidate in its ongoing preventive drug education efforts aimed at youths.

5. These efforts complement the national public education campaign coordinated by the Ministry of Digital Development and Information. 

