
Speeches
Press Conference on Whole-of-Government Efforts to Tackle Vapes – Opening Remarks by Mr K Shanmugam, Coordinating Minister for National Security and Minister for Home Affairs

Published: 28 August 2025
1. Good morning to everyone. 

2. We are here to outline to you the steps that are going to be taken. PM spoke about it at the National Day Rally (NDR) – the issue of vaping and how seriously it can affect our society, and that we will take further steps. We will outline to you both the interim steps, and then the plans for the longer term.

3. Essentially, in 2018, we banned e-vaporisers because there was concern that they can contain addictive, toxic substances. One vape can contain the equivalent of three to four packets of cigarettes, and what we have been seeing recently shows that those concerns were and are valid.

4. E-vaporisers now contain etomidate. Eventually it can be even more dangerous substances, as PM pointed out. It has got serious impact on the brain, causing confusion, (loss of) consciousness, suicidal behavior, uncontrolled physical movements -  you have seen it, PM also mentioned it at NDR. You have seen or read about the cases in the media – people collapsing on public transport, sons/children threatening their parents, wanting to do harm to themselves, parents besides themselves with how to deal with this.

5. Now, vapes and the use of vapes and etomidate has been dealt with until now by the Ministry of Health (MOH), under the Poisons Act.

6. We have now decided that we will have to step up both the suite of penalties and the enforcement posture. So, in the interim, what will be done is etomidate will be classified as a Class C drug under the Misuse of Drugs Act. So that's taking it very high up. That will be done from 1 September 2025, and up to 28 February next year. That's a six month window to give ourselves levers to deal with this issue in the interim. 

7. Meanwhile, MOH is looking at either new legislation or amending existing legislation to give themselves the right set of powers, both in terms of enforcement and penalties, to deal with etomidate and any other harmful substances that could be used through vapes. 

8. The penalties will probably include – they're thinking it through – but will probably include the Drug Rehabilitation Centre, mandatory rehabilitation programs, and of course, detention and serious penalties for trafficking. For foreigners, those caught possessing etomidate e-vaporisers or test positive for etomidate, they will likely have their immigration facilities revoked and be deported, banned from re-entering Singapore. Some leniency will be exercised for young persons, foreigners, if they are long-term pass holders, for the first-time. Second-time, they will have to leave. My fellow ministers, Ye Kung, Desmond and the others will speak up.

9. From the Ministry of Home Affairs’ perspective, in this interim period, we will lean in. We have already dedicated very significant resources to support the Health Sciences Authority (HSA) in its operations. Several hundred officers have been seconded or are helping in the process. The Central Narcotics Bureau and the Singapore Police Force will work closely with HSA to help in the investigations, and also to deter smuggling and syndicated activities. The Immigration & Checkpoints Authority has stepped up enforcement at the checkpoints against smuggling. And officers from other agencies, regardless of which agency, if they find people using vapes, they will be empowered to take action, take enforcement. So that's the broad posture.

10. I'll invite Minister Ong now to speak with you. Thank you.

