
Oral Replies to Parliamentary Questions
Assessment of Risk of Delivery of Controlled Substances by Vaping Devices

Published: 07 January 2025
Questions:

Dr Tan Wu Meng: To ask the Minister for Home Affairs (a) what is the Government’s assessment regarding the risk of vaping devices and equipment being repurposed for the distribution and administration of substances prohibited under the Misuse of Drugs Act; and (b) whether there can be upfront closer collaboration between agencies to address issues arising from vaping devices.

Mr Zhulkarnain Abdul Rahim: To ask the Minister for Home Affairs (a) whether the Ministry has studied (i) the relation of vaping with the increased risk of progressing to drug abuse and (ii) the risk of vapes as an apparatus for delivery mechanism for the consumption of a controlled drug; and (b) whether the Ministry will classify vapes as an apparatus or other article under section 9 of the Misuse of Drugs Act given the risk of vapes being misused for drug abuse.

Mr Yip Hon Weng: To ask the Minister for Home Affairs (a) whether the Ministry will consider categorising vapes containing controlled drugs and their associated paraphernalia under the same legal framework as the drugs themselves, imposing similar penalties for trafficking and consumption; and (b) what specific measures are being taken to raise public awareness, particularly among young people, about the dangers of consuming etomidate and other drugs through vapes.


Answer:

Assoc Prof Muhammad Faishal Ibrahim, Minister of State, Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of National Development:

1. Sir, several overseas studies have shown that vaping increases the risk of drug use. The Health Sciences Authority (“HSA”) and Central Narcotics Bureau (“CNB”) have come across some cases of persons using vapes to consume controlled drugs. These currently form the minority of vape cases in Singapore.

2. CNB takes a zero-tolerance approach towards the consumption of controlled drugs, regardless of how the drugs are consumed. The trafficking, possession and consumption of controlled drugs using vapes are already offences under the Misuse of Drugs Act (“MDA”). The possession of any apparatus or article, including vapes, for the consumption of controlled drugs, is an offence under section 9 of the MDA.

3. The Ministry of Health (“MOH”) takes a multi-pronged approach to curb the illicit sale and use of vapes. HSA works closely with agencies such as the Singapore Police Force, CNB, Immigration and Checkpoints Authority, National Parks Board and National Environment Agency to enforce against vapes. If these agencies detect vaping-related cases in the course of their duties, the cases are referred to HSA. HSA and CNB work together on the investigations against offenders who use vapes to consume controlled drugs.

4. The Health Promotion Board (“HPB”) is also working with the Ministry of Education (“MOE”) to raise awareness about the harms of vaping and encourage our youths to lead a nicotine-free lifestyle. This complements CNB’s preventive drug education efforts, which aims to raise awareness of the harms of drugs, especially amongst youths, regardless of how they are consumed.

